.TH HIZOSELECT 1 "7 Sep 2017" "Version 1.5" "HizoProgress Control Manual"


.SH NAME
\fBhizoprogress\fP makes it easy to create a fully customizable \fBprogress bar\fP.


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhizoprogress\fP
[\fB-L\fP|\fB--lang\fP \fIlanguage\fP]
[\fB-p\fP|\fB--progress\fP \fIinteger\fP / \fIpercentage\fP]
[\fB-d\fP|\fB--debug\fP]
[\fB-b\fP|\fB--body\fP \fIcharacter(s)\fP]
[\fB-h\fP|\fB--head\fP \fIcharacter(s)\fP]
[\fB-l\fP|\fB--limit\fP \fIinteger\fP / \fIpercentage\fP]
[\fB-o\fP|\fB--output\fP \fIformat\fP]
[\fB-of\fP|\fB--output-finish\fP \fIformat\fP]
[\fB-q\fP|\fB--quiet\fP]
[\fB-r\fP|\fB--remainder\fP \fIcharacter(s)\fP]
[\fB-R\fP|\fB--reverse\fP]
[\fB-s\fP|\fB--space\fP \fIinteger\fP]
.PP
\fBhizoprogress\fP
[\fB-L\fP|\fB--lang\fP \fIlanguage\fP]
[\fB-?\fP|\fB--help\fP]
.PP
\fBhizoprogress\fP
[\fB-L\fP|\fB--lang\fP \fIlanguage\fP]
[\fB-e\fP|\fB--examples\fP \fIinteger\fP]
.PP
\fBhizoprogress\fP
[\fB-L\fP|\fB--lang\fP \fIlanguage\fP]
[\fB-v\fP|\fB--version\fP]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhizoprogress\fP creates a progress bar that's completely customizable.
.br
The colors are configurable and it is possible to replace the progress bar by an animation or to cumulate both.
.br
Some video examples : https://asciinema.org/a/YpohbfZEd8guOIPjs0po1lmxh


.SH OPTIONS
The short arguments could not be concatenated like that : -bhr...
.br
It is impossible to use an argument as a value.
.RS
.RS
\fIEg\fP: -h "-b"
.RE
.RE

.IP \fB-b,\ --body\ \fIcharacter(s)\fP
Character(s) forming the body of the progress bar (\fI%4=\fP by default).
.br
If no value is given, the bar will not progress.
.br
The option supports the following internal variables : \fI%p\fP / \fI%p\fP / \fI%c\fP / \fI%?\fP / \fI%[0-9]\fP
.RS
.RS
0%: No one body's character(s).
.br
100%: Only body's character(s).
.RE
.RE

.IP \fB-d,\ --debug\fP
Displays the values of the different variables used (\fIfalse\fP by default).
.br
Do not use in production.

.IP \fB-e,\ --examples\fP\ \fIinteger\fP
Displays many examples of what the script can do, possible integers:
.RS
.RS
\fI1\fP: Simple examples
.br
\fI2\fP: Examples using text
.br
\fI3\fP: Examples using drawings
.br
\fI4\fP: Examples using a two half bar
.br
\fI5\fP: Examples using alternating two drawings
.br
\fI6\fP: Examples using alternating multiple drawings
.RE
.RE

.IP \fB-h,\ --head\ \fIcharacter(s)\fP
Character(s) to be used as the head of the progress bar (\fI%1>\fP by default).
.br
The option supports the following internal variables : \fI%p\fP / \fI%p\fP / \fI%?\fP / \fI%[0-9]\fP
.br
If no value is given, the head will be empty.
.RS
.RS
0%: No head's character(s).
.br
100%: No head's character(s).
.RE
.RE

.IP \fB-l,\ --limit\fP\ \fIinteger\fP\ /\ \fIpercentage\fP
Maximum line size (\fItput cols - 1\fP by default).
.br
The value can be a number of columns or a percentage.

.IP \fB-L,\ --lang\fP\ \fIfr\fP\ /\ \fIen\fP
Language to be used between English and French (\fIauto\fP by default).
.br
This option should be put at the beginning of the argument list.

.IP \fB-o,\ --output\ \fIformat\fP
Formatting the display before reaching 100% (\fI[%n] [%b]\fP by default).
.br
The option supports the following internal variables : \fI%p\fP / \fI%p\fP / \fI%c\fP / \fI%?\fP / \fI%[0-9]\fP

.IP \fB-of,\ --output-finish\ \fIformat\fP
Formatting the display once it reaches 100%.
.br
The option supports the following internal variables : \fI%p\fP / \fI%p\fP / \fI%c\fP / \fI%?\fP / \fI%[0-9]\fP

.IP \fB-p,\ --progress\fP\ \fIinteger\fP\ /\ \fIpercentage\fP
\fBhis is a mandatory requirement.\fP
.br
Percentage (with or without %) or -, to read stdin, used to raise the bar (\fI-\fP by default).
.br
The value must be between 0 and 100.

.IP \fB-q,\ --quiet\fP
Hide the error returns.
.br
These returns are displayed on stderr.

.IP \fB-r,\ --remainder\ \fIcharacter(s)\fP
Character(s) remaining, work still to be done. ("\fI%3 \fP" by default).
.br
If no value is given, there will be nothing after the head.
.br
The option supports the following internal variables : \fI%p\fP / \fI%p\fP / \fI%c\fP / \fI%?\fP / \fI%[0-9]\fP
.RS
.RS
0%: Only these characters will be used.
.br
100%: There will be no more of these characters.
.RE
.RE

.IP \fB-R,\ --reverse\fP
Reverse the direction of the bar.

.IP \fB-s,\ --space\ \fIinteger\fP
Allows you to add or subtract spaces in the return display if the return display is not optimal.
.br
Some characters may be mismanaged and it may be necessary to play with this element.
.br
The value can be negative or positive.

.IP \fB-v,\ --version\fP
Version of the hizoprogress command.

.IP \fB-?,\ --help\fP
Display an explanation equivalent to this man with more layout.


.SH INTERNAL VARIABLES
.IP \fB%b\fP
.br
The variable will be replaced by the bar.

.IP \fB%b1/%b2\fP
.br
%1 represents the first part, i.e. the beginning, of the bar.
.br
%2 represents the 2nd part, i.e. the end, of the bar.

.IP \fB%c\fP
.br
Centers text between 2%c.
.br
What is before will be at the beginning of the bar or the line.
.br
What is after will be at the end of the bar or the line.
.br
.RS
.RS
\fIEg\fP: %c Text to center %c
.RE
.RE

.IP \fB%p/%P\fP
.br
Variable replaced by the 3-digit value of the progression.
.br
%P adds the % sign to the number.

.IP \fB%[0-9]*/%?\fP
.br
Number of the colour to be used for the text that follows.
.br
Accepts one font color and one background color : \fI%Police/Background\fP.
.br
Use the character \fI?\fP to replace it by a random color.
.br
Use \fI%00\fP to reset the following text colors.
.br
.RS
.RS
\fIEg\fP: %?/25 | %1/% | %100/80 | %? | %125
.RE
.RE
.br
To see the colors and them numbers: \fBprintf\fP "\fI\\e[48;5;%dm%d \\e[0m\fP" {0..255}

.SH CURSOR
You can hide the prompt cursor with the command \fBtput\fP:
.RS
tput civis
.br
for x in {1..100}; do hizoprogress -n ${x}; sleep 0.05; done
.br
tput cnorm
.RE

.PP
Caution: If the program exits (\fBctrl+c\fP) before it can launch \fBtput cnorm\fP, the cursor will remain hidden.
.br
To avoid this kind of problem, trap the \fBctrl+c\fP keys before the above code with:
.br
.RS
function ctrl_c { tput cnorm; exit 1; }
.br
trap ctrl_c INT
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
\fITerence Belleguic\fP aka \fIHizo\fP
.MT hizo@free.fr
.ME
.br
Thank's to \fIhttps://www.developpez.net\fP, and \fIhttps://forum.ubuntu-fr.org\fP.
